proposal: Key Store Admin (#282)
awslabs/aws-encryption-sdk-specification: changes/2025-01-17_key-store-admin/background.md

It is, at least at this time,
not visible to any MPL Consumer facing operations.

### `AwsKms`

`AwsKms` is the only `Key Management` option currently
supported by the Key Store or Key Store Admin.

This option is provided by default,
if no other `Key Management` is provided.

`AwsKms` represents AWS Key Management Service (KMS).

The structure has two optional fields:

- `grantTokenList`, a list of strings
- `kmsClient`, a reference to an AWS SDK KMS client

If no `grantTokenList` is provided,
it defaults to an empty list.

If no `kmsClient` is provided,
the default KMS client is constructed via the AWS SDK.

## Key Management Strategy

`Key Management Strategy` is a union,
such that additional options may be added at a later date.

`Key Management Strategy` determines which Operations
of a `Key Management` are used by the Client.

For example,
an MPL Consumer MAY want to avoid calling `kms:ReEncrypt`,
and would rather use `kms:Decrypt` followed by `kms:Encrypt`
to re-wrap a new DECRYPT_ONLY Branch Key as a ACTIVE Branch Key.

At this time,
there are only two
`Key Management Strategy`s.

### AWS KMS ReEncrypt (default)

`AwsKmsReEncrypt` dictates the Key Store Operation use

> AWS KMS' ReEncrypt Operation to

Reviewer: maybe a link to the API docs?

[authenticate a Key Store Item](../../framework/branch-key-store.md#authenticating-a-keystore-item)
or re-wrap Branch Keys
during [Wrapped Branch Key Creation](../../framework/branch-key-store.md#wrapped-branch-key-creation).

`AwsKmsReEncrypt` is a structure that holds a `AwsKms`,
which MAY contain the KMS Client
or Grant Tokens the Key Store,
if they are set,
will use when calling KMS.

`AwsKmsReEncrypt` is the default option if
`Key Management Strategy` is marked as optional
and the parameter is unfilled.

### AWS KMS Decrypt Encrypt

`AwsKmsDecryptEncrypt` dictates the Key Store Operation to use
AWS KMS' Decrypt Operation followed by AWS KMS Encrypt Operation
to re-wrap Branch Keys
during [Wrapped Branch Key Creation](../../framework/branch-key-store.md#wrapped-branch-key-creation).

> `AwsKmsDecryptEncrypt` is a structure that holds two `AwsKms`,
> one designated for Decrypt,
> one designated for Encrypt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AwsKmsDecryptEncrypt` is a structure that holds two `AwsKms` clients,
one for Decrypt, and one for Encrypt.
```

Author: Hmm... I like the term `designated`,
as later we will use the `Encrypt` client for GenerateDataKey and Decrypt.

Maybe I will change the wording to "Primarily but not exclusively for"

This allows MPL Consumers to configure different
credentials or request headers for the KMS Operations.

# Modified Operations from the original [Branch Key Store Specification](../../framework/branch-key-store.md#operations)

## CreateKey

The CreateKey caller MUST provide:

- A `KmsSymmetricKeyArn`

The CreateKey caller MAY provide:

- A Branch Key ID
- Encryption Context
- A Key Management Strategy

At this time, the Key Management Strategy MUST be `AwsKmsReEncrypt`.
The behavior is identical.

## Version Key

The VersionKey caller MUST provide:

- A `KmsSymmetricKeyArn`
- A `Identifier`

The VersionKey caller MAY provide:

- A Key Management Strategy

At this time, the Key Management Strategy MUST be `AwsKmsReEncrypt`.
The behavior is identical.

> <!--  LocalWords:  MRK AwsKms grantTokenList kmsClient ReEncrypt  -->
> <!--  LocalWords:  AwsKmsReEncrypt keystore AwsKmsDecryptEncrypt  -->
> <!--  LocalWords:  Admin ReEncrypt  -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Boo... Renderded Markdown will not see this,
and `ispell` is a common spell checker.
